All right.
Hi, I'm Brian Weinstein,
and I'm here to talk to you guys about
what is new in Safari Extensions.
We're going to start by going
through a quick recap of
what Safari Extensions are,
why you would want to use them,
and what they are good for.
And then we're going to dive right
into what's new with Safari Extensions.
We have some new events that we
have given to Safari Extensions,
and some new UI.
So,
before we begin with talking about why
you would want to use a Safari Extension,
I would just like to say,
if this is going to be new information,
to please watch the
videos from last year.
There are two full sessions about
how to create Safari Extensions,
and they're just great.
They go into much more detail
than I'm going to right here.
So why should you make an extension
if you haven't made one before?
You might want to add something
to Safari's user interface that
you can't do with just a web page.
You might want to add an extension
bar that's always there no matter
what web page the user is on,
or you might want to add an
extension toolbar item to
natively go into Safari's toolbar.
You might want to provide a
persistent experience that
one web page can't provide.
If you have an email client,
instead of having the user keep
the email open in a background tab,
you might want to show a toolbar item
that constantly checks your email,
and then shows a badge with
how many unread emails you have
when clicking that toolbar item,
and that will take you
directly to the email.
Or, you might want to put together a
mashup of two sites that you use,
and create a new view of
these two websites without
requiring your own server.
You can do all the page loading and the
graphics on the user's local computer.
So let's talk about what
Safari Extensions are.
They are all web technologies.
They're HTML, JavaScript, and CSS.
There's no native code
in Safari Extensions.
And so what this means is if you're
familiar with using web development,
it's incredibly easy to develop.
It's just HTML and JavaScript and CSS.
There isn't a new technology to learn,
so it's incredibly easy to
write great Safari Extensions.
And since we're using HTML, it's secure,
and you're not going to see crashes.
So let's talk about how the basic
structure of Safari without extensions.
So when a user is browsing in Safari,
you might have a few windows open,
and each window has a few tabs,
and each tab has a web page inside of it.
Safari also provides some additional UI.
It provides bars,
like the bookmarks bar or the tab bar,
and it can provide
toolbar items like back,
forward, or home.
And then you have your Safari extensions.
The extensions are a self-contained
bundle that are made up of
a few different components.
You can add toolbar
items in your extension.
You can also have bars and context menus.
[Transcript missing]
So, now you've seen a little bit of
how extensions are put together,
you might want to get started
building them right now.
So to do that, you need to go to the
Safari Developer Center and sign up for
the free Safari Developer Program and
download your certificate.
You can do that at
developer.apple.com/safari
and you can get started today.
And once you do,
you can open up the Develop menu
and show the Extension Builder,
which is your one-stop shop for
developing and building extensions.
You can specify your
various UI elements here,
and you can put together some
information that the user sees,
like the name that's displayed or
a website that they can find more
information about your extension.
So, that was a quick recap of what
extensions can do and how they are built.
And once again,
if this was new information to you,
please watch the videos from last year.
They go into much more detail.
And they just did a great job.
Let's talk about what's
new with Safari extensions.
We introduced extensions
at WWDC a year ago,
and we have just been blown
away by some of the extensions
that you guys have put together.
They've just been incredible and done
things we couldn't have even imagined.
However, in the process,
we got a lot of feedback
about what you guys would also
like to see in extensions,
and we've incorporated that
and are excited to tell
you about what's new today.
One of the first things that we heard
a lot of feedback about is you want to
know how users interact with the browser.
Do they keep a lot of windows open?
Do they keep a lot of tabs open?
And how long do they
stay at certain pages?
We've added some new events that
let you determine just that and use
that to provide an even more custom
experience to your users in an extension.
Another thing we introduced
in Safari 5 was Safari Reader.
And it's been a huge hit,
and it's a great way for
people to read articles.
But we've also heard you want
to be able to interact with
Reader in your extensions.
And we've added Reader events
that allow you to do that.
The first event we added
is the Available event.
And that is sent to a tab when
it's determined that Reader
is available for that tab.
This is a great time to automatically
enter Reader and provide a great
article reading experience for
your users using the enter and exit
APIs we've added on the Reader object.
However, the user might not want to
enter Reader on every site.
They might want to on site A,
but not site B.
And we've also added the
Activate and Deactivate events.
Which tells you when the
user enters or exits Reader.
If they enter Reader on site A,
you can use the Available event
to always enter Reader on site A.
And if they don't use it on site B,
it doesn't have to automatically
enter it on site B.
So, along with Reader,
you also wanted to know how the user
interacts with windows and tabs.
We've also added window and
tab events to make this easier.
Let's say you have an extension that
keeps track of all of the tabs that
a user's opened and has never read.
I know that happens to me all the time.
I start opening links in background tabs,
and I just get distracted and
forget which ones I've read.
So, you would probably want to
listen for when a tab is opened,
and add it to your list of unread tabs,
and then you would want to remove it
when it's either closed or selected.
And to help you get started with that,
we've added open and close events,
which are sent to a tab or a
window when it opens or closes.
Let's take a look at when these events
are fired in a typical browsing session.
So, when the user opens a window,
an open event is sent to that window,
and a tab will also be opened
as part of the process,
and an open event will
be sent to that tab.
When the user opens a second tab,
an open event is sent to that tab.
Some navigation might happen,
and then the user might
be done with that tab,
and we'll close it,
and we send a close event to that tab.
And then when the window is closed,
a close event is sent to
every tab in the window,
and then to the window itself.
However, this only gets us part of the
way to that extension that
keeps track of your unread tabs.
You also need to know
when a tab is selected,
so we can also remove
it from the unread tabs,
because that's when it gets read.
So we've also added activate
and deactivate events that are
sent to a tab or window when
it is activated or deactivated.
So if you have a window with two tabs,
and you have the first tab selected,
and you want to read
something on the second tab,
first a deactivate event
is sent to tab one,
and then an activate
event is sent to tab two.
The deactivate event
is always sent first.
Now, for another interesting extens —
for another extension that I've
wanted to see is how many people,
when they're trying
to get some work done,
end up on Reddit or Facebook,
and before you know it,
an hour of your day is gone.
Yeah, yeah, it happens.
What if you could have an
extension that warned you before
you went to one of these sites,
and if you went to the site,
it kept track of how long
you were on the site,
and told you how long you were
distracted in a certain day?
It might be a little
depressing to look at,
but it would be a
pretty useful extension.
So we've also added Before Navigate
and Navigate Events.
The Before Navigate Event is
sent to a tab before the user
navigates within that tab,
and the navigation is cancelable by
calling preventDefault on the event.
So you can prevent that
navigation from happening.
And then if the navigation happens,
a Navigate Event is sent when the
mainframe finishes loading in a tab,
and then you can keep track of how
long the user was on the site by
looking at the time the navigation
happened and comparing it to
the time they navigated away.
Those are the events that we've
added to Safari Extensions.
How are they used?
Since we're just using JavaScript, HTML,
and CSS in our extensions,
it makes sense for these
to be just like DOM events,
which means that it's the
addEventListener syntax
that you know and love.
So for adding listeners,
since a lot of these events are
fired on both windows and tabs,
if you wanted to listen
for when new windows open,
you wouldn't want the
same handler to be fired.
So if you wanted to listen for
when any tab or window is opened,
you could add a capturing event
listener to the Safari application
and listen for the open event.
Or if you wanted to listen for
when a specific tab is activated,
you could add an activate
listener just to that one tab.
However, since these events are fired
on both windows and tabs,
you need some way to determine
if it was a window or a tab,
especially if you're using
these capturing event listeners.
And so we've also added the ability
to use the instance of operator.
And so you can check if the event
target is an instance of a browser tab,
or if the event target is an
instance of a browser window,
and do your behavior accordingly.
So now that we've seen
some of these events,
let's take a look at how easy
it is to use these events to
put together something awesome.
When I was talking about the extension
that keeps track of your unread tabs,
that's a pretty great idea,
so let's put that together right now.
So now we have Safari open,
so let's go into the develop menu
and open the extension builder.
I have set up a few things about —
I've set up a little bit of information
about my Unread Tabs extension.
I've set up the name that's displayed
to the user and a description.
So the basic way that this extension
is going to work is it's going to
listen for when tabs are opened and
add them to our list of unread tabs.
And then when a tab is
either activated or closed,
it's going to remove them
from our list of unread tabs.
And then we can show the user the number
of unread tabs they have in each window.
And we can add a toolbar item,
and then we have a natural way to
show that little bit of information.
We can use a badge on the toolbar item.
So let's set up a global
page to manage the events,
and then let's add a new toolbar item.
We'll call it "Unread Tabs."
And we'll give it an image,
and we will set up an
identifier — just unread tabs.
So now our extension is configured.
All we have to do is write the code.
So let's open up our global HTML page.
And since these are just HTML,
all we need to do is set
up our HTML document.
But since this page isn't
visible to the user,
all we have to do is add a script tag.
So this extension will
keep track of unread tabs,
so we need a list of unread tabs.
And then we also need to listen
for when tabs are opened,
activated, or closed.
And then we also need to
update our toolbar item state,
so we'll listen for a validate event,
which is sent to a toolbar
item whenever an interesting
event happens in the browser,
and it's a good time to update
your toolbar item state.
So we now have our list of unread tabs,
and we have our event listeners.
When a tab is opened,
all we want to do is,
if it's actually a tab,
we want to add it to
our list of unread tabs.
So all we do is we check if our
event target is a browser tab,
we add it to our list of unread tabs.
That's a pretty easy start.
So now if a tab is either
activated or closed,
we remove it from our
list of unread tabs,
and since we'll be doing that
in two different locations,
let's have a function
that does it for us.
So all this function does is it looks
for a tab in the list of unread tabs,
and if it's there, removes it.
Then,
when a tab is either activated or closed,
all it needs to do is check if
it's actually a tab and remove
the tab from the unread tabs.
Now, for the validate event,
what we want to do is we want to
look at all of our unread tabs and
see how many of them belong to the
same browser window as the toolbar
item we're updating our state for.
So we have our validate handler,
and it first checks the event command,
making sure it's unread tabs,
and then it looks over all the
unread tabs and checks to see if
their browser window is the same
browser window as the toolbar item,
which is the event target.
And then we will disable our
toolbar item if there aren't
any unread tabs in the window,
and we will set our badge
to be the number of unread
tabs we have in that window.
So let's save, go back to Safari,
and the Extension Builder is open,
so let's install our extension.
And we now have a toolbar
item in our extension,
and when we open up a
few background tabs,
You can see that our count updates.
We now have three unread
tabs in this window.
When we select one,
the count goes down to two.
And if we open a new window and open
a few background tabs in that window,
You can see that our
count updates per window,
and we now have two
unread tabs in one window,
and three unread tabs
in the other window.
Great.
So now we have a way to keep
track of the number of unread
tabs we have in each window.
Okay,
so what did we look at in that demo?
We went through a quick refresher of the
Extension Builder and showed how easy it
is to use to configure your extensions.
We looked at how to add listeners
for the new events that we've added,
and how to handle when
the events are fired,
and we looked at how to use
the validate event to update
the state of our toolbar items.
So those were the new events that
we added to Safari Extension.
So I'm going to hand it over
to Jessie Berlin to talk
about the new UI we have.
Thanks, Brian.
Hi, my name is Jessie Berlin,
and I'm an engineer on the
Safari and WebKit team.
Just like Brian,
I've been really impressed by
what you guys have done with
extensions over the past year.
And in the next 20 minutes or so,
I'm going to show you some cool
new UI elements that you can use to
make your extensions even better.
So going back to Brian's
unread tabs extension,
it's really cool that we have
the number of unread tabs.
But it'd be even cooler if I could
know which tabs I haven't read yet,
and maybe close out all the
tabs that I'm already done with.
So how could we do this today?
Well, we could add extension context menu
items for each one of the unread tabs.
Context menu items will be shown when
the user right-clicks in the page.
But that doesn't seem appropriate
for the unread tabs extension,
because what does the context of the page
really have to do with my unread tabs?
So what else could we do?
Well, we could inject a script into
the web page and draw a menu
approximately beneath where we
expect the toolbar item to be.
But that's really fragile,
because the web page can change the
JavaScript and the CSS in ways the
extension really isn't expecting,
and might make the menus look really bad.
So it looks like we really don't
have a great way today to show a
list of options to the user from
within the Safari UI with extensions.
Which is why we added extension menus.
Menus are a great way to show the
user a list of items or options.
Say you want to show the user
a list of languages that your
extension can translate into,
or maybe some style sheets
that they can use to change
the look of the current page.
Menus are a great way to do that.
They have a native look and feel,
so they look right both
on Mac and Windows.
And they can be shown when the
user clicks on the toolbar item,
clicks and holds on the toolbar item,
or just when you call show
menu on that toolbar item.
So you're probably wondering, okay,
what can I put in these extension menus?
Let's go over what you can do with
an individual extension menu item.
So first off, there's the title.
This is the text that
will be shown to the user,
and you should keep it
pretty short and sweet,
because you don't really want your
menu taking up half the page just to
accommodate one really long title.
If you want to show the user
what's currently on or in use,
you can use a check mark.
And if you want to add a little
bit of visual splash to your menu,
you can use images.
These are specified through
Safari Extension URLs or HTTP URLs,
and they'll be automatically
scaled to 16 by 16 pixels,
so they can fit in the menu.
Sometimes there's an option
that's not really appropriate
in the current context.
A great example of this is an undo item,
when there's nothing
for the user to undo.
You want them to know
it's there for the future,
but you don't want them
to be able to select it.
All you have to do is
disable the menu item,
and it will remain grayed out and not
selectable until you enable it again.
You should use separators
to make it easier for your
users to find your menu items,
if you have a lot of them.
And last but not least,
you can even use submenus.
for advanced options, or again,
to help you organize your menu items.
Okay, so how do we create these menus?
Well, we added a new section
to the Extension Builder
for creating these menus.
But what if you wanted to show the user
a list of the current pages that are
embedded in the website they're visiting?
You wouldn't really know that
information when you go to
create your menu in the Builder.
So we've also added ways to create
menus and menu items at runtime
on the Extension object and on
the individual menus themselves.
You can modify these menus and menu items
up until they become visible to the user.
So make sure you check the visible
attributes available both on the
menus and the menu items before
you make your modifications.
And whether you create them
in the Builder or at runtime,
your menus will be available
on the menus array in the menus
array on the Extension object.
And you can get to them,
you can find your menu by
using the unique identifier
you specified when creating it.
You're probably wondering,
how do I know what's
going on with my menu?
How is the user interacting with it?
We added extension menu events.
Before the menu is shown to the user,
you're going to get two things.
One, you're going to get the menu
event with the menu as its target.
And then you're going to get validated
events for each one of the menu items.
This is a perfect time for you to
update your menus and your menu items
before they're shown to the user.
When the user selects
one of these menu items,
you'll get a command event.
Let's take a look at an example
of handling a command event.
So as you can see,
I've registered the listener
on the application object,
but you can register it on the
target or any of its ancestors.
And I don't have to use
capture because the menu,
command, and validate events all bubble.
When we're handling the command event,
all you have to do is check
the command to figure out what
the user wanted you to do.
It's that simple.
and take a look at actually creating
and using one of these menus.
I'm going to go ahead and modify
Brian's unread tabs extension,
so that it will show me a list of the
unread tabs and also allow me to close
out any tabs that I've already read.
So I'm first going to bring up the
Extension Builder by going to the develop
menu and showing the Extension Builder,
and then I'm going to add the
menu and a toolbar item for
that menu to be shown from,
and then after that,
we'll go ahead and show how
to handle the command and menu
events in the global page.
In the Builder, we have added a new
section for creating menus.
I'm going to click on the
New Menu button and give it a unique
identifier of Unread Tabs Menu.
Let's go ahead and create that menu
item for closing all our red tabs.
I'm going to click the
New Menu Item button,
give it a title of Close All Red Tabs.
and a unique identifier
of Close All Red Tabs.
So let's go to the toolbar item and tell
it that we want to show that menu when
the user clicks on the toolbar item.
I'm going to go to the menu
section and select the Unread
Tabs menu that I've just created.
Now, last but not least,
We're going to want to have
access to the titles of all of the
tabs to show them in that menu.
So that means we need to have access
to the titles of the web pages,
so I'm going to set the
access level to All,
even the secure pages,
because we want to show
those too in our menu.
So now that we're done configuring
the extension in the Builder,
let's go ahead and pull up
the global page and handle
the command and menu events.
[Transcript missing]
So let's talk about the menu event first.
We're going to want to add menu
items for each of the unread tabs.
But we're also going to want to
make sure that we clear out any
other menu items we had from the
previous time we showed the menu,
because we only want to do this
right before the menu is shown.
So let's go ahead and
look at the code for that.
As you can see, I'm appending a menu
item to the event target,
which is the menu.
I'm using the index into the unread
tabs array as the identifier,
and grabbing the title of the tab
as the title of the menu item.
Then I'm also going to go ahead
and try to get the favicon for
the site to make it look pretty.
Let's go ahead and clear
out the old menu items.
You'll notice that I'm clearing out all
but the first one because I want to keep
around my "Clear all red tabs" menu item.
Now, we don't want the user to mistake
clear all red tabs for just
another one of their unread tabs.
That could be pretty bad.
So let's go ahead and add a separator
to make that distinction clear.
And that's all we need to do to
handle that menu event which is sent
when the menu is about to be shown.
Let's go ahead and handle the command
events now that will be sent when
each of the menu items are selected.
And let's take on the
Close All Red Tabs menu item first.
So it's fairly simple.
All it's doing is getting all
the tabs in the current window,
comparing them against
the list of unread tabs,
and closing out all the
ones we've already read.
All that's left to do is go ahead and
implement handling the menu items,
the individual unread tab menu items.
And that's very simple,
because their command is going to be the
index into that array of unread tabs.
So all I have to do
is using that command to index into
that array and activate that tab.
Let's go ahead and see this in action.
I'm back at the Extension Builder,
and I'm going to click the reload button.
And we'll open up a
bunch of background tabs.
As you can see, the toolbar item is
Toolbar Items Badge went up,
and if I click on it, it shows our menu.
Let's go see the page about the iPod.
It brought me right there.
If we want to get rid of
everything we've already read,
all you have to do is select the
"Close all read tabs" option.
And as you can see,
we're only left with the
tabs that we haven't read.
So that's Extension menus.
I hope you guys go ahead.
and use them, they're in the seed.
I can't wait to see what
you guys do with them.
So what did we just see?
We saw how to create a menu
in the Extension Builder.
We saw how to handle the
menu and command events.
And we saw how to create and
use those extension menu items.
So menus are pretty cool,
but what if I wanted to show a
large chunk of content to the user,
maybe a weather map for the local area?
Well, how could we do this today?
We could use an extension bar.
Extension bars are great for showing a
small amount of content that you want
to persist across windows and tabs,
but they are designed for
a small amount of content.
They're given 30 pixels,
and they take that away from the page.
So what else could we do?
Well,
we could use full-page extension content,
which is a file from the
Safari Extension Bundle that is
loaded into a window or a tab.
But that requires the user to
navigate away from the page
they're currently visiting,
and maybe we don't want to interrupt
their current experience to do that.
Right now,
we don't really have a good way to show
Large chunks of custom content
to the user without navigating or
stealing real estate from the page.
And we heard your requests,
and we added extension popovers.
Popovers are a great way to show a large
chunk of custom content to your user.
Say you wanted to do that
persistent email experience that
Brian was talking about earlier.
You can do that login in a popover.
Just like extension menus,
popovers are shown from toolbar items,
and they don't steal real
estate from the page.
And they don't require any navigation.
As I mentioned before,
they are shown from toolbar items,
and you can have it shown when the
user clicks on the toolbar item,
clicks and holds on the toolbar item,
or just call show popover
on the toolbar item.
So you're probably wondering, okay,
great,
what's in these extension popovers?
Well, HTML, JavaScript, and CSS,
web technologies.
All this content comes from a file
within the Safari Extension Bundle,
and it's loaded
Popover is created.
The content window attribute represents
the DOM window for that popover.
You can use the content window on the
popover and on the global page and on
extension bars to communicate among
these objects in the application layer.
Say you wanted to send some information
to a global page from a popover.
All you have to do is call a method
on that global pages content window.
You can also set a variable
on the content window for the
bar so that it has new state.
How do we create these?
Well, just like for menus,
we added a new section
to the Extension Builder.
But you can also create them at
runtime using methods that we
added onto the Extension object.
And whether you created them in the
Builder or created them at runtime,
they'll be available on the popovers
array on the Extension object.
You should use the unique identifier
you specified when creating the
popover to find it in that array.
Let's talk a little bit
more about using popovers.
When a popover is about to be shown,
We send a popover event.
This is the perfect time for you to
update any UI in a pertinent state
before it is shown to the user.
One thing you might want to update is
the width and height of your popover
to make it fit your content better.
They'll start off with a
default of 300 by 400 pixels,
but you can change that any time,
even when it's visible to the user.
Popovers hide when focus is lost.
So when the user clicks on a page
or clicks somewhere on the window,
the popover will automatically go away.
But you can also call hide on the popover
to make it go away programmatically.
So let's go ahead and actually
create and use an extension popover.
So sometimes it's hard to determine
what colors will really look
good together out in the wild.
It's not obvious when you put two colors
side by side that they'll look good as
a background color and a text color.
So a little while back,
I created an extension that will show
me this color information in a bar.
And let's go ahead and take
a look at that right now.
Let's check out a page
that has a lot of colors.
For example, Flickr.
I'm going to view my bar by going into
the View menu and showing the Colors bar.
Now, as you can see,
it shows me a lot of background
colors and some text colors.
But wait, there's more.
There are more text colors,
and there are even border colors.
The problem is,
It doesn't really fit that
well in an extension bar,
but I don't really want to open up
another page to show the user the colors.
They should be able to see it
while they're on the website.
So let's put this into a popover where
we'll have enough room to show those
colors and maybe even the color strings
that are being used to generate them.
I'm going to show you how easy it
is to turn this display code that's
being used in a bar into display
code that can be used in a popover.
First, we need to bring up
the Extension Builder.
By going to the Develop menu and
selecting Show Extension Builder,
I'm going to go to my
Color Finder extension.
And here we need to configure it so
that it uses a popover instead of a bar.
Once we're done with the configuration,
I'll show you how to handle the
popover event that is set when it's
just about to be shown to the user.
So what we need to do first is
probably get rid of that bar.
So we're just going to click
the X in the right-hand corner.
And go to the New Popover
section and press the New Popover
button to create a new popover.
I'm going to give it a unique
identifier of Show Colors Popover.
It's going to use the popover.html file,
which we will see in a few minutes.
And we're going to need a toolbar
item to show this popover from.
So I'm going to press the
New Toolbar Item button and
give it a label "Show Colors."
It needs an image to
show in the toolbar item,
and a unique identifier.
Now, I want to point out here that
I'm leaving the command blank.
If I had specified a command,
the command would be sent when the
user clicked on the toolbar item,
and the popover wouldn't be
shown until the user clicked
and held on the toolbar item.
This is also true of menus.
So we want to make sure that
we don't have a command here,
because we want it to be shown when the
user just clicks on the toolbar item.
So we're done in the Builder.
Let's go ahead and look at the
code to actually show the popover.
So let's look at what we have here.
We have some CSS to style the
content that'll go in the popover.
And then you'll notice that I'm including
this file called show_colors.js.
show_colors.js waits for a
message from the content script
And then unpacks that message,
gets all the color information out of it,
and generates HTML to
show in the popover.
This is actually code that I am
sharing with the bar implementation,
because processing a message
is not specific to popovers.
It works just as well for bars and
global page as it does for popovers.
I'm going to be a little
hand-wavy at this point,
in the interest of keeping it short,
but all of this code for
the Color Finders Extension,
the Unread Tabs Extension,
and some other extensions are
available as sample code on
the Safari Developer Center.
So you should check it out if you want
to learn more about how I'm generating
that HTML content for the popover,
and how I'm doing the message
passing between the content script,
which is injected into the web page,
and application layer.
So go ahead and make
sure you check that out.
But right now, we're going to want to
handle the popover event,
which is sent right before the
popover is about to be shown.
And we're going to want to
tell the content script,
"Okay, right now I actually do
need the color information,
so gather it and send it back up
to me so I can show those great
colors in the popover." Let's
go ahead and do that right now.
So I'm just adding the codes to — adding
the event listener for the popover,
And then once we get the popover event,
I'm getting rid of any color information
from the last time we showed the popover,
because that might have
been a different page,
or it might have changed in between.
And then I'm going ahead and
dispatching a message to the
content script telling it,
"Go get that color information."
So we're almost done,
but I want to make sure that our
content fits inside the popover.
We don't want a lot of extra
white space if there aren't
that many colors on the page,
or we don't want to have a really
small popover if there are a lot of
colors and force the user to scroll
through a lot of colors and text.
So I'm going to go ahead and find that
popover and adjust its height once
we're done generating that HTML content.
So as you can see, it's fairly simple.
It just goes through the popovers
in the array on the extension,
finds the one with the unique identifier
that we specified in the builder,
and then sets the height to
be the height of the document.
So let's go ahead and see this in action.
I'm going to bring back up the builder.
and reload the extension.
The bar went away.
And as you can see,
we have this new toolbar
item for showing the colors.
When I click it — oops,
I forgot one thing.
For the — in the Builder,
I need to make sure that I specify
my new popover as the popover to
be shown for the toolbar item.
So let's try that again.
I'm going to reload the extension.
Click on the toolbar item,
and we get this great popover
with all of our colors.
You can see the color strings,
and it's much easier
to get the information.
So popovers are also
available in the Seed.
I'm really excited to see
what you guys do with them.
So go ahead and check them out today.
And let's just quickly
recap what we just did.
We saw how to create a popover
in the Extension Builder.
We saw how to handle that popover event,
which is sent right before the
popover is about to be shown.
And we saw how easy it was to reuse code
that is being — doing display in a bar
to also display information in a popover.
Today we've learned a lot.
We've saw how extensions are a great way
to add new functionality to Safari's UI.
We've talked about the great new
events that we've added so that you
guys can know what the user is doing
with Reader and with Windows and Tabs.
We talked about the exciting
new menus API that allows you to
show the user a list of options
from within the Safari UI.
And last but not least,
we talked about the popovers API,
which we know you guys have been wanting
and we hope you have a lot of fun with.
If you're looking for more information,
you should contact Vicki Murley,
our awesome
Safari technologies evangelist.
And you should check out the gallery.
It's been revamped, it looks pretty cool.
And this is where your users are gonna
go to find the new and cool extensions.
Go ahead and check out what other
developers have done and submit
your extension to the gallery today.
For a more in-depth coverage,
of these APIs,
you're going to want to check out
the Safari extensions reference.
The one that's next to the seed on the
Safari Dev Center has information about
all the new APIs we talked about today.
And once we actually release,
you'll see all the information
in the normal reference docs,
and the guide for creating
Safari extensions will be updated
to talk about how to create
popovers and menus as well.
Speaking of which,
you should check out the
Safari Developer Center.
It has sample code,
it has great references for
doing development for extensions
and other parts of Safari,
and that's also where you're going to
find a link to the videos from last
year in iTunes for those of you who
are totally new to extensions and want
to have a more in-depth coverage of how
to create and use a basic extension.
There are other labs that
you should check out.
Right now, right after our session,
there's the HTML5 offline storage,
and that's here.
So you should just stick around.
And then you should also check out the
What's New in CSS Effects and Animations,
which happened yesterday,
but you'll be able to find the
video on the conference website.
Okay.